and there was a booming above you
 that night, black airplanes flew over the sea
 and they were lowing and shifting like
 beached whales
 shelled snails
 as you strained and you squinted to see
 the retreat of their hairless and blind cavalry

 you froze in your sand shoal
 prayed for your poor soul
 sky was a bread roll, soaking in a milk-bowl
 and when the bread broke, fell in bricks of wet smoke
 my sleeping heart woke, and my waking heart spoke

 then there was a silence you took to mean something:
 mean, run, sing
 for alive you will evermore be
 and the plague of the greasy black engines a-skulkin'
 has gone east
 while you're left to explain them to me
 released from their hairless and blind cavalry

 with your hands in your pockets, stubbily running
 to where I'm unfresh, undressed and yawning
 well, what is this craziness? this crazy talking?
 you caught some small death when you were sleepwalking

 it was a dark dream, darlin', it's over
 the firebreather is beneath the clover
 beneath his breathing there is cold clay, forever
 a toothless hound-dog choking on a feather

 but I took my fishingpole (fearing your fever)
 down to the swimminghole, where there grows bitter herb
 that blooms but one day a year by the riverside - I'd bring it here:
 apply it gently
 to the love you've lent me

 while the river was twisting and braiding, the bait bobbed
 and the string sobbed, as it cut through the hustling breeze
 and I watched how the water was kneading so neatly
 gone treacly
 nearly slowed to a stop in this heat
 - frenzy coiling flush along the muscles beneath

 press on me: we are restless things
 webs of seaweed are swaddling
 you call upon the dusk
 of the musk of a squid
 shot full of ink, until you sink into your crib

 rowing along, among the reeds, among the rushes
 I heard your song, before my heart had time to hush it!
 smell of a stone fruit being cut and being opened
 smell of a low and of a lazy cinder smoking

 and when the fire moves away
 fire moves away, son
 why would you say
 I was the last one?

 scrape your knee; it is only skin
 makes the sound of violins
 when you cut my hair, and leave the birds the trimmings
 I am the happiest woman among all women

 and the shallow
 water
 stretches as far as I can see
 knee-deep, trudging along
 a seagull weeps; "so long"

 I'm humming a threshing song
 until the night is over
 hold on!
 hold on!
 hold your horses back from the fickle dawn

 I have got some business out at the edge of town
 candy weighing both of my pockets down
 'til I can hardly stay afloat, from the weight of them
 (and knowing how the common-folk condemn
 what it is I do, to you, to keep you warm
 being a woman, being a woman)

 but always up the mountainside you're clambering
 groping blindly, hungry for anything:
 picking through your pocket linings - well, what is this?
 scrap of sassafras, eh Sisyphus?

 I see the blossoms broke and wet after the rain
 little sister, he will be back again
 I have washed a thousand spiders down the drain
 spiders ghosts hang soaked and dangelin'
 silently from all the blooming cherry trees
 in tiny nooses, safe from everyone
 - nothing but a nuisance; gone now, dead and done
 be a woman, be a woman!

 though we felt the spray of the waves
 we decided to stay 'til the tide rose too far
 we weren't afraid, 'cause we know what you are
 and you know that we know what you are

 awful atoll
 - o, incalculable indiscreetness and sorrow!
 bawl, bellow:
 Sibyl sea-cow, all done up in a bow

 toddle and roll;
 teeth an impalpable bit of leather
 while yarrow, heather and hollyhock
 awkwardly molt along the shore

 are you mine?
 my heart?
 mine anymore?

 stay with me for awhile
 that's an awfully real gun
 I know life will lay you down
 as the lightning has lately done

 failing this, failing this,
 follow me, my sweetest friend
 to see what you anointed in pointing your gun there

 lay it down! nice and slow!
 there is nowhere to go, save up
 up where the light, undiluted, is weaving in a drunk dream
 at the sight of my baby, out back:
 back on the patio watching the bats bring night in
 - while, elsewhere, estuaries of wax-white
 wend, endlessly, towards seashores unmapped

 last week our picture window produced a half-word
 heavy and hollow, hit by a brown bird
 we stood and watched her gape like a rattlesnake
 and pant and labour over every intake

 I said a sort of prayer for some sort of rare grace
 then thought I ought to take her to a higher place
 said: "dog nor vulture nor cat shall toy with you
 and though you die, bird, you will have a fine view"

 then in my hot hand
 she slumped her sick weight
 we tramped through the poison oak
 heartbroke and inchoate

 the dogs were snapping
 so you cuffed their collars
 while I climbed the tree-house
 then how I hollered!
 cause she'd lain, as still as a stone, in my palm, for a lifetime or two

 then, saw the treetops, cocked her head and up and flew
 (while, back in the world that moves, often
 according to the hoarding of these clues
 dogs still run roughly around
 little tufts of finch-down)

 the cities we passed were a flickering wasteland
 but his hand in my hand made them hale and harmless
 while down in the lowlands the crops are all coming;
 we have everything
 life is thundering blissful towards death
 in a stampede of his fumbling green gentleness

 you stopped by, I was all alive
 in my doorway, we shucked and jived
 and when you wept, I was gone:
 see, I got gone when I got wise
 but I can't with certainty say we survived

 then down, and down
 and down, and down
 and down, and deeper
 stoke without sound
 the blameless flames
 you endless sleeper

 through fire below, and fire above, and fire within
 sleeped through the things that couldn't have been if you hadn't have been

 and when the fire moves away
 fire moves away, son
 why would you say
 I was the last one?

 all my bones they are gone, gone, gone
 take my bones, I don't need none
 cold, cold cupboard, Lord, nothing to chew on!
 suck all day on a cherry stone

 dig a little hole, not three inches round
 spit your pit in the hole in the ground
 weep upon the spot for the starving of me!
 till up grow a fine young cherry tree

 well when the bough breaks, what'll you make for me?
 a little willow cabin to rest on your knee
 what'll I do with a trinket such as this?
 think of your woman, who's gone to the west

 but I'm starving and freezing in my measly old bed!
 then I'll crawl across the salt flats to stroke your sweet head
 come across the desert with no shoes on!
 I love you truly, or I love no-one

 fire
 moves
 away

 fire moves away, son
 why would you say
 I was the last one?
